[app-intents][docs][3/n] Add docs (#47226)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/app-intents.mdx

---
title: AppIntents
description: A library for exposing Apple App Intents, Siri, Shortcuts, Spotlight, and Apple Intelligence entry points from Expo apps.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-app-intents'
packageName: 'expo-app-intents'
platforms: ['ios']
isAlpha: true
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { ConfigPluginExample } from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';

> > **important** **This library is currently in [alpha](/more/release-statuses/#alpha) and will frequently experience breaking changes.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **important** This library is currently in [alpha](/more/release-statuses/#alpha) and will frequently experience breaking changes.
```

I don't think the whole sentence here requires bold text format.

> `expo-app-intents` allows your app to expose Apple App Intents while keeping the intent declarations in Swift using [inline modules](/modules/inline-modules-reference/), where Apple's build-time metadata extraction can find them. The package provides the JavaScript API, native invocation queue, entity storage, config plugin, and a starter `app-intents/` directory for native inline module code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`expo-app-intents` allows your app to expose Apple App Intents while keeping the intent declarations in Swift using [inline modules](/modules/inline-modules-reference/), where Apple's build-time metadata extraction can find them. The package provides the JavaScript API, native invocation queue, entity storage, config plugin, and a starter **app-intents** directory for native inline module code.
```

App Intent types cannot be created dynamically from JavaScript at runtime. You have to declare `AppIntent`, `AppEntity`, `EntityQuery`, and `AppShortcutsProvider` classes in Swift, then use this package to hand invocations to JavaScript and keep dynamic entity values in sync.

## Installation

<APIInstallSection />

After installing the package, run the initializer from your project root:

```sh

> npx expo-app-intents init

Reviewer: [🏗️ **design**] Every SDK reference page renders shell commands with the `<Terminal>` component, never a raw ```sh fence (raw fences are reserved for JS/TS/JSON/XML/Swift). `brownfield.mdx` shows the same pattern for a package CLI command. Replace this fenced block with:

`<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo-app-intents init']} />`

and add the import next to the others (line 13): `import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';`

```

> This command adds the config plugin, enables inline modules for the top-level `app-intents/` directory, and writes starter Swift files. Then rebuild the native project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command adds the config plugin, enables inline modules for the top-level **app-intents** directory, and writes starter Swift files. Then rebuild the native project:
```

```sh

> npx expo prebuild -p ios

Reviewer: [🏗️ **design**] Same as above: use `<Terminal>` instead of a raw ```sh fence. Both commands fit one Terminal:

`<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo prebuild -p ios', '$ npx expo run:ios']} />`

npx expo run:ios
```

> The app intents are now set up in your app. Depending on your choice of examples you can now add handlers or populate the app intents on the JavaScript side:

Reviewer: Seems like, this whole section should be part of the Usage section, which will be consistent with other docs in SDK reference as well.

};

export function JournalIntentHandler() {
  const [entries, setEntries] = useState<JournalEntry[]>([]);

  AppIntents.useAppIntents(async (pendingIntents) => {
    for (const invocation of pendingIntents) {
      if (invocation.name !== 'createJournalEntry') {
        continue;
      }

      const entry = {
        id: String(invocation.params.id ?? invocation.id),
        title: String(invocation.params.title ?? 'Untitled'),
        message: String(invocation.params.message ?? ''),
      };

      setEntries((current) => [entry, ...current]);
      await AppIntents.removePendingInvocationAsync(invocation.id);
    }
  });

  return (
    <FlatList
      data={entries}
      keyExtractor={(entry) => entry.id}
      renderItem={({ item }) => (
        <Text>
          {item.title}: {item.message}
        </Text>
      )}
    />
  );
}
```

</Collapsible>

## Configuration in app config

The initializer writes the required configuration for you:

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": ["expo-app-intents"],
    "experiments": {
      "inlineModules": {
        "watchedDirectories": ["app-intents"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

> If you use a directory other than `app-intents`, pass the same directory to the config plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a directory other than **app-intents**, pass the same directory name to the config plugin:
```

<ConfigPluginExample>

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [["expo-app-intents", { "directory": "siri" }]],
    "experiments": {
      "inlineModules": {
        "watchedDirectories": ["siri"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</ConfigPluginExample>

## How it works

App Intents are different from most Expo APIs because Apple discovers them at build time. The Swift types that describe your intents, entities, queries, and shortcut phrases must be compiled into the app target so Xcode's App Intents metadata processor can extract them. `expo-app-intents` uses Expo inline modules for that app-target Swift and provides a regular Expo package for the JavaScript API, native storage, and event delivery.

> The generated `app-intents/` directory is watched by Expo inline modules and contains your app-owned Swift:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated `**app-intents** directory is watched by Expo inline modules and contains your app-owned Swift:
```

- `AppShortcuts.swift` defines your concrete `AppShortcutsProvider`. Shortcut phrases are static metadata: they are compiled into the app and cannot be added dynamically from JavaScript.
- `AppIntentsSetup.swift` connects the app-target `AppShortcutsProvider` to the `expo-app-intents` runtime so JavaScript can request `AppShortcuts.updateAppShortcutParameters()` via the `expo-app-intents` package.
- The remaining Swift files define concrete `AppIntent`, `AppEntity`, and `EntityQuery` types. They compile into the app target, but are not registered as Expo modules unless they contain an Expo module definition.

> When an intent runs, its `perform()` method should finish the native work that Siri or Shortcuts expects and then dispatch the intent to JS, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an intent runs, its `perform()` method should finish the native work that Siri or Shortcuts expects and then dispatch the intent to JavaScript/TypeScript, for example:
```

Parameterized intents use native entities. For example, the restaurant template defines a `DishEntity` and `DishQuery` in Swift, while JavaScript supplies the current dish list with `setEntityCatalogAsync('dish', dishes)`. The native query reads that catalog through `AppIntentEntityStore.shared`, so Siri and Shortcuts can resolve spoken values by ID, title, or synonym. Calling `setEntityCatalogAsync()` replaces the catalog and requests a shortcut parameter refresh; call it again whenever those values change.

Assistant schema intents, such as the journal example, are also defined in app-target Swift. The schema intent can be discovered directly on supported iOS versions, but the template includes a shortcut-facing wrapper intent so the main `AppShortcutsProvider` can remain available on devices below iOS 18. If your app only supports iOS 18 or later for that provider, you can reference the schema intent directly and remove the wrapper.

> ## Learn more about App Intents

Reviewer: [🏗️ **design**] External-links sections go last on sibling pages, right before `## API` (for example age-range.mdx places "Additional resources" immediately before its API section). Here this section sits before `## Usage` and interrupts the flow: explain, point out to Apple, then come back for usage. Move it to just before `## API` (after Platform constraints and Limitations), and consider renaming it "Additional resources" to match siblings.

> In order to get practical knowledge of how to use the `expo-app-intents` package start by analyzing basic examples suggested when running `npx expo-app-intents init`. The counter example is the simplest and once you understand it you will have a good knowledge of how the foundation `expo-app-intents` works. Later you can move onto the restaurant and journal examples to see more practical usage.

Reviewer: [💡 suggestion] Several thoughts are packed into long sentences here. The style guide asks for one thought per sentence (two clauses joined by "and" is usually two sentences), and "move onto" should be "move on to".

```suggestion
To learn how to use `expo-app-intents`, start with the basic examples that `npx expo-app-intents init` scaffolds. The counter example is the simplest. Once you understand it, you understand the foundation `expo-app-intents` is built on. From there, move on to the restaurant and journal examples for more practical usage.
```

> The main goal of the examples is to demonstrate the process of connecting the JS and Swift runtimes. Once you master those examples, you should consider learning more about App Intent development from excellent learning resources provided by Apple:

Reviewer: [🐧 nit] Drop the marketing adjective "excellent" (style-guide anti-patterns: marketing adjectives).

```suggestion
The main goal of the examples is to demonstrate the process of connecting the JS and Swift runtimes. Once you master those examples, you should consider learning more about App Intent development from Apple's resources:
```

- [Accelerating app interactions with App Intents](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appintents/acceleratingappinteractionswithappintents)
- [Code-along: Make your app available to Siri](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2026/344/)
- [Integrating your calendar app with Apple Intelligence](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/AppIntents/integrating-your-calendar-app-with-apple-intelligence)

## Usage

> ```ts

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```tsx Basic example
````

import * as AppIntents from 'expo-app-intents';

export function AppIntentHandler() {
  AppIntents.useAppIntents(async (pendingIntents, newIntent) => {
    for (const invocation of pendingIntents) {
      switch (invocation.name) {
        case 'increaseCounter':
          break;
        case 'orderFood':
          console.log('Dish:', invocation.params.dishName, invocation.id === newIntent?.id);
          break;
      }

      await AppIntents.removePendingInvocationAsync(invocation.id);
    }
  });

  return null;
}
```

> Feed dynamic values for parameterized intents from JavaScript:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feed dynamic values for parameterized intents from JavaScript/TypeScript:
```

```ts
await AppIntents.setEntityCatalogAsync('dish', [
  { id: 'margherita-pizza', title: 'Margherita Pizza', synonyms: ['margherita', 'pizza'] },
  { id: 'spaghetti-carbonara', title: 'Spaghetti Carbonara', synonyms: ['carbonara'] },
]);
```

The generated entity queries read those values through `await AppIntentEntityStore.shared.entities(ofKind:)`, so Siri and Shortcuts can offer and resolve them as intent parameters.

Classic App Shortcut phrases can interpolate at most one non-array parameter. The generated restaurant order example includes a parameterized phrase such as "Place an order for Tiramisu in MyApp" for one-shot Siri commands, plus static phrases such as "Place an order in MyApp" and "Choose Italian food in MyApp" so Siri can ask which dish you want. Parameterized phrases can create pre-filled tiles in Shortcuts; if a tile was created by an older build and runs stale parameter values, delete that tile so iOS can recreate it from the current app metadata.

## Platform constraints

> - Requires a native iOS build; `expo-app-intents` is not available in Expo Go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Requires a native iOS build. `expo-app-intents` is not available in Expo Go.
```

- App Shortcut phrases are compiled into the app and cannot be added dynamically from JavaScript.
- Every App Shortcut phrase must include `\(.applicationName)`.
- A single App Shortcut phrase can interpolate at most one non-array parameter.
- Apps can define at most 10 App Shortcuts.
- Assistant schema examples require iOS 18 or later and must match one of Apple's [supported App Intent domains](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appintents/app-schema-domains).

> ## Expo-app-intents limitations

Reviewer: [💡 suggestion] Headings use generic names, not raw package names. Siblings use "Limitations" (age-range.mdx) or "Known limitation" (local-authentication.mdx). "Expo-app-intents" also mis-cases the package name (it is `expo-app-intents`).

```suggestion
## Limitations
```

Reviewer: Also, please move this limitations section before Installation, like we do in other pages.

> Using expo-app-intents you can implement many Apple Intelligence features, as of now there no way of supporting

Reviewer: [💡 suggestion] Three issues in this sentence: "there no way" is missing a verb ("there is no way"); the comma after "features" splices two independent clauses (the style guide prefers separate sentences over comma chains); and `expo-app-intents` should be in backticks, as it is everywhere else on the page. Suggested:

> With `expo-app-intents`, you can implement many Apple Intelligence features. As of now, there is no way to support [on-screen intelligence](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appintents/providing-contextual-cues-to-apple-intelligence-and-siri).
